# GLADOS_CLI
This is the command line interface version of GLADOS, allowing for more flexibility for users who desire a programmatic mode of navigating GLADOS. This tool runs using Python and requires no external libraries. The majority of this README gives an overview on CLI commands- for more information on experiment compatibility for being able to be run on the GLADOS system, check out the section "EXPERIMENT COMPATIBILITY" at the bottom or at the following [link](https://automatingsciencepipeline.github.io/Monorepo/tutorial/usage/)

In order to use this tool, you must authenticate your GLADOS account with GitHub.

The below instructions first allows you to generate a token, and then allows you to store the token that was generated by passing in the token as an argument to
the token action, using the `-t` or `--token` option:

Manual Steps:
```sh
python glados_cli.py --generate-token
python glados_cli.py -t <token>
```

After signing in via GitHub, a new file called "token.glados" will be created. This will contain your token for accessing GLADOS in the future. It is strongly recommended that you add this file to ".gitignore".

Below are the operations you can perform (note that they are mutually exclusive unless otherwise stated).

## Upload & Run Experiments

To upload and run an experiment, use the `-z` or `--upload` option, passing in the path of an executable file or zip folder to the command:

```sh
python glados_cli.py -z <executable file path>
```

Additionally, there must be a manifest.yml file in the same experiment directory, declaring experiment parameters and other config variables, for running the experiment to work. See template_manifest.yml for more details, including information on experiment compatibility.

Upon running the experiment, its ID will be printed, with a message saying whether the experiment successfully started or not.

## Query Experiments

To search experiments, use the `-q` or `--query` option:

```sh
python glados_cli.py -q <experiment title>
```

This command will display all experiments with the given title with the following information about them:

- experiment id
- experiment status
- tags
- number of successfully completed trials over total number of trials to run

To search all experiments, use the title "*".

## Download Experiment Results

To download experiment results, use the `d` or `--download` option:

```sh
python glados-cli.py -d <exp_id>
```

This will save the experiment result csv file to the current user directory.

## Download All Experiment Artifacts

To download all experiment artifacts, including result csv file, project zip file, and system logs, use the `da` or `--download-all` option:

```sh
python glados-cli.py -da <exp_id> 
```

This will save the experiment artifacts to the current user directory.

Should an error occur in running the experiment (not all the trials completing successfully), system logs can be an excellent debugging source.

## Update script

Each time a command is run, the version of the script is checked. If the GLADOS repository has an updated version, it prints a notifcation, encouraging an update to occur. This update can occur with the `u` or  `--update` option:

```sh
python glados-cli.py -u 
```

This will download the new CLI from the remote repository and rename the current CLI to glaods_cli_old.py.

## EXPERIMENT COMPATIBILITY

GLADOS supports experiments that are one of the 3 types below:

1. Run on Python 3.8 as a single Python file.
2. Are packaged as an executable .jar file.
3. Are compiled into a binary executable for Unix systems, runnable on a base Debian system.

Additionally, it also accepts experiments contained in a zip file that includes one of the above file types.

The following below are add-ons that can be included within a zip file submission:

Users can provide a file called "userProvidedFileReqs.txt". This file is a Python requirements file. When this file is provided all packages will be automatically installed.
Privileged users have the option to provide two files:

1. packages.txt - this contains Debian packages to be installed to the runner.
2. commandsToRun.txt - this file contains bash commands that will be run on the runner after packages have been installed.

For each trial, an experiment is expected to:

1. Read parameters from a config file
2. Write results to a CSV file

It is recommended to look at example compatible programs at [this link](https://github.com/AutomatingSciencePipeline/Monorepo/tree/main/example_experiments)
You can use these programs as a reference when creating your own compatible program.
